# SOFT3202 Exam Pre-work
> The Pre-work for the final exam of SOFT3202

## Table of contents
* [API](#api)
* [Implementation Level](#implementation-level)
* [Dependencies](#dependencies)
* [Configuration](#configuration)
* [Operation](#operation)
* [TDD Logbook](#tdd-logbook)
* [Citation](#citation)
* [Contact](#contact)

## API
> INPUT API: https://developer.oxforddictionaries.com/ 
  * `Entity`: Given a word, check if it has an entry or a list of possible root forms. Given an entry, display an info
    panel about that entry.
  * `Report data`: data on a given entry.
  * `Database caching`: info on entries. 
> OUTPUT API: https://sendgrid.com/solutions/email-api/
  * Send the `report data` as an email to a single configured email address (can be configured in a text config file or
the app itself) 

## Implementation Level
Distinction: TDD & Database & Concurrency

## Dependencies
* Test - JUnit 4
* Test - Mockito
* JSON - json-simple
* Database - SQLIte-JDBC

## Configuration
Before you run the software, you should set up your configuration file first, which is stored in the path: `src/main/resources/configFile.json`

Simply fill in the 9 features:

 > "id": "your api id for oxford dictionary api",
  
 > "key": "your api key for oxford dictionary api",
  
 > "emailKey": "your api key for the SendGrid api",
  
 > "emailFrom": "the email address you want to use to send the email",
  
 > "emailTo": "the email address to receive the email",
  
 > "emailReply": "the email address you want to use to receive the reply form the receiver",
  
 > "senderName": "the name of the person who send the email",
  
 > "targetName": "the name of the person who receive the email",
  
 > "replyName": "the name of the person who receive the reply from the receiver"

If you did not set up the configuration file or the data you wrote in was invalid, the software will stop working and exit.

## Operation
1. TO BEGIN
You can start the software by entering the following command:

   `gradle run --args="<input api mode> <output api mode>"`
  
with the first controlling the input API, and the second controlling the output API. 

> `<input api mode> `:

          - offline:  dummy version of Oxford Dictionary API
          
          - online:   Oxford Dictionary API
          
> `<output api mode> `:

          - offline:  dummy version of SendGrid API
          
          - online:   SendGrid API

For example:

`gradle run --args="offline online"`

WARNING: if the arguments are not in the correct forms or not enough arguments are given, the software will not start.

2. JAVADOC

You can access an existing javadoc via the path build/docs/javadoc which is previously generated by the developer.

However, there exists an issue that the javadoc might be in Chinese as the developer's system default language is Mandarin. In that case, please generate a new one by entering the following command:

`gradle javadoc`

The language of the newly generated javadoc will be the same as your system default language.

3. TO LOOK UP
You can loop up a word by entering the word in the text box at the centre of the GUI, and then click "look up" button.

Then the system will start to send the request to the API. Note that before any response caught from the the API, the GUI will still be responsive, due to the concurrency, so you can still modify the word you enter, but will not change the result. 

After the result is displayed on the text area of the GUI, the "send email" button will be unfrozen, so you can send the results displayed on the GUI to the email account you previously set in the configuration file. Note that the "send email" button will be disabled when there is null text on the text area.


## TDD Logbook
  > Round 1: 
  Testing:
  * api id, api key validation checking
  * sending email
  * check entity's existence in the database
  * retreive entity from database
  * update entity in database
  
      RED      `commit ID: 658d6e3fd39af27412b5516c7a359c5a2ae45a52`
      
      GREED    `commit ID: ded3f2e8cd84995871fc9bbf8bd421c3c9a40e4d`
      
      REFACTOR 
      
            1.0 --- `commit ID: 9fbb030d55aa94c54d5836d14f8584195d1df3ee` : 
            - Establishing Connection to Database and API

            2.0 --- `commit ID: 130de9417f7826696de781f06e3ef089f910e48b` : 
            - More api realted functional modules
            - NOTE: Test cases have been slightly modified to cooperate with the methods after change

            3.0 --- `commit ID: f3776a3177a0bb49e8f58db8cacf10b7a56288a8` : 
            - Can now send email via API
            
            4.0 --- `commit ID: 757a55db35398f08d1b033d5568651560ca4d33e` :
            - Can now obtain the configuration information from the configuration file.
            - Expression Error fixed in sentences.
            
            5.0 --- `commit ID: 1e56bbb654f5d5861de8d6caecb1005808091f96` : 
            - Concurrency(SwingWorker): The GUI can now be responsive when it is sending the API requests
            - Dummy versions are now created
            - Javadoc added
            
## Citation
* The scaffold codes for the GUI in package view(src/main/view/RequestWindow.java) are mainly from the code I wrote in this unit for task3.
* The scaffold codes for the HTTP GET and POST request(src/main/model/InputHTTP.java, OutputHTTP.java) are mainly from the code I wrote in this unit for task3.
* The scaffold codes for the SQLite JDBC read and update(src/main/model/Database.java) are mainly from the Sample.java in https://github.com/xerial/sqlite-jdbc .

## Contact
Created by bwan3675 baocheng wang - feel free to contact me via bwan3675@uni.sydney.edu.au!
